Good afternoon, everybody.
And-- Thanks for coming back to
another session about UI Scroll View.
For those of you that have
come in previous years,
welcome back.
And for those of you
that are new this year,
thanks for coming.
We've got some very cool things
to talk about today again,
I hope.
And if you've seen the previous sessions,
either in 2009, 2010, 2011,
you're probably familiar with how we're
going to begin the presentation today.
But that's just going
to be a couple minutes,
and then we'll get into a lot
of more interesting things.
So first off,
we're going to start about just a
little bit of review about how to
configure your UI Scroll View and
how UI Scroll Views work,
just the basics.
So we're all on the same page.
Once we finish that,
we're actually going to look
back at something that we
talked about at WWDC 2010,
which is building a great photo browser
that feels just like the photo browser
that you find in the Photos app on iOS.
And the reason we want to review this
a little bit more today is because with
the introduction of a scrolling mode
on UI Page View Controller in iOS 6,
building this photo browser has
become significantly easier than it
was when we last talked about it.
After we get done with
that little bit of review,
then we're going to talk about something
brand new that we've really never even
talked about at all before at WWDC.
And that's integrating
UI Scroll View into your
OpenGL games and applications.
So if you're sitting there thinking,
well, you know,
I don't have an OpenGL game or an app,
so maybe I'm just going to
get out when that comes up.
Don't worry,
there's actually a lot of really
important things that we're going to
discuss in the context of the OpenGL that
are actually broadly applicable.
So if you use UI Scroll View,
UI Table View, UI Text View, UI Web View,
or even the new
UI Collection View in iOS 6,
the kinds of things we're going to
talk about with run loop modes and
touch delivery and responder chain,
they are true for all of those
different kinds of UI Scroll Views
with or without OpenGL.
So stick around.
And then at the end, actually,
we're going to get into something
that was new in iOS 5 last year,
but that we didn't have
time to talk about.
And that's controlling the stop offset
of your Scroll View after the user
scrolls and it comes to decelerate.
You know, when your user scrolls a
little bit and lifts their
finger while it's still moving,
the Scroll View comes to rest.
The Scroll View has
decided where it will land.
And with a new delegate
method introduced in iOS 5,
it actually tells you where that will
be before the deceleration starts.
But even better is you
can adjust that offset,
which lets you do some
interesting things.
So let's get started with the
quick review of UI Scroll View.
So let's talk about the
UI Scroll View configuration.
So the basics of UI Scroll View,
obviously, are that you have more content
than can fit on any one screen
and you want to allow your users
to scroll around within it.
And you do that by just setting
one property on the UI Scroll View,
and that's your content size.
And the content size is just the
width and height of your content.
And when you set that property,
UI Scroll View knows exactly how
much it can scroll in any direction.
And it all just works with
just that one property set.
But sometimes you need to know which
part of the content is currently
visible programmatically during
the execution of your application.
And the way that we refer to that in
UI Scroll View is as the content offset.
The content offset is the point in your
content that's currently visible at the
top left of the scroll view's frame.
So in this case where we only
have vertically scrolling content,
the distance from the top to the point
that was visible is your content offset.
Now, scroll view supports scrolling,
but it also supports zooming.
And to add zooming to your scroll view,
there's just two things that
you have to add on top of that.
First, you have to have the content
that you want to have zoomed as
a subview of your UI Scroll View,
and return that from a delegate method
called ViewForZoomingInScrollView.
That's the first thing.
The second thing is
to set two properties,
the minimum and maximum zoom scale,
that tell the scroll view how
much the content is allowed
to be zoomed either in or out.
And with those two things done,
your users can pinch to zoom
in and out on the content,
or you can program the scroll view
to zoom in and out on the content.
And you can also programmatically
control the zoom scale.
So it's pretty easy.
The basics are really simple.
If you're not already familiar
with those things or if any of
that is a little surprising,
I recommend that you watch some
of the previous sessions from
earlier WWDCs or check out the
documentation at developer.apple.com.
There's a lot more
there about the basics,
but today I just want to get into
some of the more interesting advanced
topics that we want to talk about.
So first, let's take a look back at
page scrolling and that photo
browser that we built in 2010.
If you've seen the 2010 session or
are interested in the 2010 session,
you can go to the page scrolling page
and click on the page scrolling button.
If you've seen the 2010 session or if
you've downloaded the photo scroller
sample app from developer.apple.com,
then you're already familiar
with the kind of thing we're
about to be talking about.
But if you haven't seen it,
just a quick review of what
we're talking about here.
You want to build the photo browser
that feels just like the Photos app.
Your users can scroll back
and forth between photos,
zoom in on them,
and then scroll back from the
zoomed-in photo to photos next to them.
So just that exact same kind of photo
browsing experience that you see on iOS.
If you've seen the sample
code or watched the session,
then you're familiar with the
view hierarchy that we built
in order to make this happen.
It looks something like this.
We had an outer paging UI scroll view
that was the base of our view hierarchy,
and we used that for scrolling back
and forth between photos horizontally.
Then each page, each individual photo,
had its own zooming UI scroll view.
So we created one
UI scroll view per page,
and that was what we used to
zoom in and out on the photos.
And then the photos themselves were
each UI image views added as sub
views to those UI scroll views.
So we spent basically an
entire session talking about
how you put all this together.
And there was really,
there's quite a lot of code behind it.
And if you've looked at the sample code,
you're probably familiar with that.
So the great news with iOS
6 is that that bottom part,
the paging UI scroll view,
if you're using UI page
view controller instead,
that can go away entirely.
UI page view controller takes
care of that entire part of
this view hierarchy for us.
So now we're left with a little bit less.
We just have these two
separate collections of
views that we have to build.
But you can simplify this even further
now because UIPageViewController
is a view controller,
and view controllers are really great
for building screenfuls of content.
And really, each one of these photos is
a whole screenful of content.
So all we have to really think about now
is building a view controller that knows
how to zoom and display a single photo,
rather than having to
worry about all of them.
And once we have a view controller
that can display one photo,
we can just allocate many of
those and keep handing them
to the UIPageViewController
to display as many as we want.
So really all we have to do now
is think about building a single
zooming UI scroll view that knows
how to zoom a single image view.
So much simpler to conceptualize
and really work on than
what we had in the past.
The other thing that we spent a lot
of time talking about in 2010 and that
there's actually quite a bit of code
devoted to in the photo scroller sample,
and not just quite a bit of code,
but kind of slightly
confusing and unclear code,
I guess, is putting extra space
between those photos.
It'd be really nice if they weren't
abutting each other like they
are in this picture right now,
because these greens are
just blending together.
And it'd be nice if you had some
black space between them to just give
the user a good sense of where one
photo ends and the next one begins.
So we just like to space
them out just a little bit.
And it really was, well,
let's say a little bit of a
hack the way it was done in the
original photo scroller sample.
So it's much cleaner now.
And in fact,
with UI Page View Controller,
not only is it almost no code,
but it's really just one property.
So when you create a
UI Page View Controller,
you use this new key,
UI Page View Controller Option Interpage
Spacing Key.
And it may still be hard
because you can't remember that.
But that's what completion is for.
And that will let you specify exactly how
much space you want between those photos.
And really,
it's as easy as just passing one option
when creating the Page View Controller.
So that's how we're
going to configure it.
Next, let's just take a quick look at how
the page view controller will ask
for the photos so that we know how
things will behave once we have our
single view controller configured.
So let's put this into an iPhone.
Now, let's assume that the user puts
their finger down on the screen and
starts scrolling to the next photo.
At that point,
UI page view controller will ask for
the next photo using a delegate method,
view controller after view controller.
And at that point,
you just allocate a new copy
of that same type of UI view
controller that you created to
display and zoom a single photo.
Put your new photo in it and return
it to the page view controller.
Page view controller deals with
deciding when it should be added to
and removed from the view hierarchy.
It makes sure that it doesn't live
longer than it should so that if you
scroll through a whole bunch of pages,
you don't end up with
unbounded memory growth.
It takes care of all the details of when
the view should be added and removed,
and you don't have to
worry about any of that.
And that was actually a big part of
the code that we had to write before.
And then similarly,
when we scroll in the other direction,
we'll get another delegate method,
view controller before view controller.
And we can just return a new instance
to represent the previous photo.
So it's pretty simple.
With those things done,
all that's really left to implement
then is zooming in and out on
that single picture that we have.
And with the introduction
of UI page view controller,
this hasn't really changed too much.
So we're not really going to get
into the specifics of how this works.
If you're not really familiar with how
to set up a zooming UI scroll view,
the sample code is still available,
and there's actually new sample code
this year based on the new stuff.
And you can go check that out,
but we're not going to get too
much into the details right now.
But UI page view controller,
once it's zoomed in,
does handle scrolling back
out to photos next to the one
that you were zoomed in on.
So with that in mind,
Eliza is going to come up and do
a demo of how we can build this.
Hi, Eliza.
I'm an engineer on the Passbook team now.
And I'm going to show you the demo
or just the sample code that we
had from the demo two years ago.
I've added one new feature to it.
So let me switch over here.
[Transcript missing]
All right, we're going to make a
UIViewController subclass,
and I'm going to call it
ImageViewController because
its job is to display an image.
I'm going to add that to the project.
I'm just going to move it up
here so I've got it handy.
Okay, so what is this image view
controller going to do?
Turns out it's going to do pretty little.
It's going to be really easy to write.
So the first thing that I'm going to
do is declare a couple methods that
this class knows how to implement.
The first is a class method to
return an image view controller
for a particular page index.
And then we're also going to have these
image view controllers know how to vend
the page index that they are displaying.
So in the implementation for this,
let's get rid of some
of this excess stuff.
Okay, we need to import my image
scroll view subclass.
Now, this is the same scroll view
subclass that we were using before.
I'm not going to show you much about it,
except to note that the
class vends this image count.
So this scroll view subclass
is actually handling all of the
logic for figuring out what image
to display on any given page.
So we'll just keep that just the same.
So we're going to need in this
image view controller class
to have a page index IVAR,
and then we're going to need to
implement just a few methods.
So we need an initWithPageIndex
method just to set the page
index on the new instance.
We need a page index method to return
the page index for a given instance.
Now let's go ahead and implement this
image view controller for page index
method that I declared in the header.
It's going to be pretty simple.
What we want to do is we're going
to have a page index that's going
to be a little bit more complex.
So we're going to have a
page index that's going to
be a little bit more complex.
So we're going to have a
page index that's going to
be a little bit more complex.
So we're going to have a
page index that's going to
be a little bit more complex.
do is if the page index that was
passed in is a reasonable one,
if we actually have an
image for that index,
then we're going to return
one of these view controllers.
If not, we're going to return nil.
And you'll see in a minute that that
will turn out to be really handy when
we're implementing the data source
methods for the UI page view controller.
So if the page index is within range,
if it's greater than or equal
to zero and less than the image
scroll view's image count,
then we'll return a new instance,
initialized with the page
index that we got asked for.
And otherwise we'll return nil.
All right.
We're almost done with this class.
Just two more methods -- rather,
three more methods to go.
So we need to make a load view method.
And in that method,
we're going to do nothing fancy.
We're just going to create one
of these image scroll views,
same class we were using before.
Set its index to be our page index.
Set its auto resizing mask to
give it flexible width and height.
This is really important.
If you notice that when we
initialized the scroll view,
we actually didn't give it a frame.
We are not responsible for
sizing our view ourself.
The UI page view controller is
going to do that for us as long
as we make ourselves flexible.
So we're going to do that.
We're going to set our view --
because we're a view controller here,
right?
So we're going to set our
view to be the scroll view.
And that's pretty much it.
We need to then also say
that we can auto rotate,
just to continue to support rotation.
So the way that UI page view controller
works is it asks its current page
permission to rotate when it itself
is asked whether it's going to rotate.
So we're going to say, yeah,
we support all of the
interface orientations.
All right.
So that's pretty much it for
our image view controller.
So as you can see, it's a lot less code
than we just deleted.
And now all that we have left to
do is back in this app delegate,
we need to import our new
class that we just made,
our new header.
And then we need to go ahead and
make this first page as we promised.
So page zero,
it's just image view controller,
image view controller page index zero.
And then we need to set this page on
our UI page view controller instance.
So it's another one of
these many argument methods.
Set view controllers
direction animated completion.
So the view controllers is just going to
be an array consisting of only page zero.
The direction is forwards in this case.
And we don't really want to animate
this or -- and we don't care about
when it completes because this is
all being done before the app is
actually even visible on the screen.
So we're going to set
this page as page zero.
So great.
So we've got a first page.
Now, if I were to run this now,
you would see the first page.
But we would crash when we tried
to scroll because we haven't
implemented our data source methods.
So we need to implement those.
We need two data source methods.
Page view controller,
view controller before view controller,
and view controller
after view controller.
And these are going to be incredibly fast
to write because we just need to grab the
page index out of the view controller.
We don't want to have to do that.
So we're going to return the page
index to the controller we were given.
And in the case where we're
trying to make the one before it,
we just need to subtract one and
return the page for that index.
So I'm going to return
image view controller,
image view controller for page index,
the one before.
This is where it becomes
really handy that this method,
image view controller for page index,
returns nil if the page
index is out of bounds.
Because the way that you tell
a UI page view controller to
stop allowing scrolling is by
returning nil from this method.
So if the page index is out of bounds,
we'll just automatically make it so
scrolling comes to an end at that page.
And then in the after case,
we do exactly the same
thing but plus one.
And now we can go ahead and run it.
And here we go.
It looks just the same as before,
which is a good sign.
I can scroll from page to page.
I can rotate and scroll back,
rotate again.
And let's see, I can still zoom in,
zoom out.
Everything's working just as before.
So minus a lot, a lot of code.
So back to Josh.
So hopefully that is going to be a
really nice benefit for everybody and
make it easier for everyone to get
scroll views and photo browsers that
feel just like the Photos app on iOS.
The next thing that
we want to talk about,
I'm actually really,
really excited about.
I think this is very cool.
We're going to talk about
integrating UI Scroll View into
your OpenGL games and applications.
So you may wonder why you
might want to do this.
A common thing that you end up finding is
that you've got something in your game,
usually in a setup screen or a browser
of some sort at the beginning of a game,
where you have to be able to
scroll through some content.
And it's at first glance not obvious
how you might use UI Scroll View in
order to actually scroll the
content in your OpenGL games,
because the way UI Scroll View works
is that you put the scrollable
content into the UI Scroll View,
and UI Scroll View moves it around.
That's obviously kind of at
odds with your own OpenGL stuff,
where everything exists in one UI view
that displays all the OpenGL content.
So let's take a look at
how we might do this.
I really wanted to get everyone really
invested in this and excited and pull
you all right into the experience here.
So I have some really amazing graphics
to really just illustrate this well.
So let's assume that we've got
a game that we're going to build
that is going to be a racing game.
And of course, in your racing game,
you need to allow your users to
pick which car they want to race as.
And so let's imagine that
we're going to do that on some
screen where we have a podium,
and we're going to place cars on it
that the user can scroll through.
So we've got this immersive
3D game with a podium that's
going to display our cars.
And I've drawn this myself,
so you know it's good.
Now let's place our car on the podium,
and then we want to allow our users
to scroll between different cars to
pick the one that they want to race as.
If you were to do this in
just a regular 2D game,
the way you would probably do
that is by taking this 3D scene,
pulling the car out of it,
and putting it inside a UI scroll view
so that you can scroll between that.
But of course, in a 3D world,
this might not be possible.
Because maybe you have some
other parts of the scene that
interact with these cars.
You might have some lights that
are on top shining down on the
cars that you're trying to display.
And maybe those lights are causing
reflections off the windows.
[Transcript missing]
You can see here the amazing
work of my OpenGL genius.
This represents the outer
limit of my OpenGL competence,
so be impressed.
We've got a bunch of cubes
here that are rotating,
and we have another really big
cube here that's rotating more
slowly and changing color.
So what we want to-- so here's
what this app does out of the box.
You can tap on this bigger cube and
make it randomly change to a different
color and a different rotation speed.
You can also tap on these little cubes,
and they'll take on the properties
of the big cube at that moment.
So this way, we can-- for example,
if we wait a few seconds
and tap on the next one,
you can see how the big
cube is changing over time,
which is really useful.
So there we go.
So now we might want to be able to
track the big cube's progress over
time-- over a longer period of time,
and so we might want to have more
than just three of these little
cubes to record its progress.
Okay, so we might want to be able
to actually add more cubes,
and then we could scroll through them.
So to do this,
we can use the trick that Josh just
described of placing a scroll view
inside the OpenGL view to accept touches,
and then we're going to set a new content
offset on the OpenGL view to change where
the little cubes are being displayed.
So let me move over to the code.
And basically,
we've got a view controller here,
which is a subclass of
GLK view controller,
which is part of the standard setup
for making an OpenGL app on iOS.
And then we have almost all of the work
is being done in this cube view class,
which is essentially
drawing all that stuff.
It's being updated at every frame
by the OpenGL rendering machine,
and then it also vends a few properties
that are going to be useful when
we want to set up this scroll view.
So it vends a scrollable frame,
which is the frame in the OpenGL view
that we want to make scrollable,
and it also gives us a scrollable content
size telling us how much room there is
within that scroll view for scrolling.
It also has a read/write property,
scroll offset,
that we'll be able to set when the
scroll view scrolls so that the cube
view will update its view accordingly.
All right, so that's the setup.
Let's go ahead and do it.
So here in my viewDidLoad method,
I'm going to add a scroll view.
I'm going to set the scroll
view's frame to be this scrollable
frame vended by our view.
And I'm going to set its content size
to be the scrollable content size.
[Transcript missing]
All right, my clicking is broken.
So in fact, I've actually broken taps.
So as you can see,
taps are actually still
working in the rest of the app.
So I haven't broken them altogether.
But in the area where the scroll view is,
taps are not making it
through to my OpenGL view.
So to explain why that's going wrong,
I'm going to bring Josh back up.
There's actually one other
mode that Eliza didn't mention,
and that's the NSCommonRunLoopModes.
Now, NSCommonRunLoopModes is actually a
combination of the other two modes,
the default and the tracking RunLoopMode.
So it's one constant,
NSCommonRunLoopModes,
that actually encompasses both.
So if you didn't want to schedule
in just one or the other but
wanted to schedule for both,
you could just use NSCommonRunLoopModes.
Now, Eliza mentioned all of this in
the context of OpenGL views,
but what she didn't mention is
that this actually affects all
UI scroll view subclasses everywhere,
such as UI TextView, UI WebView,
the new UI CollectionView,
all of these things.
So if you're using any
scroll view anywhere,
you may have run into this in the past.
One common example of other places
that you'll see this are places
where you're using NSTimers.
The way that you would
normally schedule a timer,
the most convenient way,
is to call scheduled timer with time
interval target selector repeats.
And what this will do is
actually schedule this timer
on the RunLoop on your behalf.
But what it does is schedule
it in the default RunLoopMode.
So if you schedule a timer like
this for one second from now,
and one second from now the
user is scrolling a scroll view,
that timer's not going to
fire at the time you expected.
So you may have actually come
across this and not been entirely
clear on what was happening.
That's why it happens.
So you can work around this with
NSTimer in particular by creating your
timer using the other class method,
the timer with interval method.
It takes all the same parameters,
but it doesn't get scheduled
into the RunLoop automatically.
Now the reason you'll do that
is because then you can use the
NSRunLoop method to schedule the
timer yourself in a particular mode.
So we can call NSRunLoop main RunLoop,
add timer for mode, and pass in,
in this case,
NSCommon RunLoopModes to indicate
that we want this timer to fire
regardless of whether we're in the
default or tracking RunLoopMode.
So we can call NSRunLoop main RunLoop,
add timer for mode, and pass in,
in this case,
NSCommon RunLoopModes to indicate
that we want this timer to fire
regardless of whether we're in the
default or tracking RunLoopMode.
or tracking run loop mode.
So that's one common case.
Another one then is the
performSelectorAfterDelay method.
performSelector with object
after delay also schedules
into the default run loop mode.
So if you call this method,
even though it's not necessarily
obvious that it's having anything
at all to do with run loops,
if your user is scrolling
one second from now,
the selector that you asked to
perform isn't gonna get called.
This one's actually even easier
to fix in that there's just a
slightly longer version of the
same method called performSelector
with object after delay in modes.
Now, it's slightly different in that this
actually takes an array of modes.
So here we've used the new array
syntax introduced in iOS 6 to
have a NSCommonRunLoopModes as
the single element in our NSArray.
So if you happen to find that when
you're using your UI scroll views,
something that you think should be
happening right now isn't happening
until the scroll view finishes,
take a look at your run loop modes
'cause that's probably what's going on.
All right, so that's run loop modes.
Now, let's see if we can't help
Eliza realize her dreams.
So, UI responder and event delivery.
This is...
is really the foundation of
the basics of touch handling,
ignoring UI gesture
recognizer for a minute,
on iOS.
So let's take, for an example,
a really simple case,
ignoring the OpenGL view
and the UI scroll view.
Let's just assume we
have some plain UI view,
not a subclass of anything,
and that this thing
has one child UI view.
So we'll put that right in there.
And now let's let our user put a
finger down inside of that child view.
So the way event delivery on iOS
works is we hit test from the window
out towards the user and find the
deepest view that we would have hit,
in this case the child view,
and we deliver the touch to that view.
So touches began with event will
get called on that child view.
If you don't implement
touches began with event,
and it will automatically get
forwarded by the UI responder
methods up the responder chain.
And the next responder from
a view is its super view.
So it would get forwarded
to the parent UI view.
Now, if the parent view didn't
implement touches began with event,
the responder chain would
forward to the next responder,
and the next responder in
this case would actually be,
because let's assume that this
parent view has a view controller,
would be the view's view controller.
So child view,
and the next responder in this case
would actually be child to parent
to that parent's view controller.
Now, if the parent view
controller didn't handle it,
the next responder is the UI window,
because there's no other super view.
And if the UI window didn't handle it,
it would go to the UI application object.
And finally, if it's not handled there,
it would go to the UI application
delegate that you would have
set on your application.
So that would be the normal
responder chain path,
and any of these views would
have seen that touch if one
of them didn't handle it.
But clearly that's not what's
happening in Eliza's case,
because the parent view,
which in her case was her NSOpenGL,
or sorry, her... OpenGL view,
that subclass of UI view,
is where she implemented
her touch handling logic.
So according to this diagram,
her parent view, that OpenGL view,
should have received the touch.
So to understand why it didn't,
we have to take a look at
the actual view hierarchy,
which is a UI scroll view embedded on
top of an NSOpenGL... I keep saying
NSOpenGL... on top of an OpenGL view.
So let's do the same thing here,
and have the user put a finger
down in that UI scroll view.
Of course,
we're going to deliver it right
to the UI Scroll View first.
But the problem in this case is
that that's actually where this
responder chain ends delivery.
Because UI Scroll View does implement
touches began with event and doesn't
forward it up the responder chain.
So it stops right there,
and her OpenGL view never sees it.
So obviously we'll have to do something
in order to figure out how her
OpenGL can get this touch because that's
where her touch handling logic lives.
Now, one thing that I've seen a
number of times that I really,
really, really want to discourage is
something that looks like this.
You implement touches began with event
in your subclass of UI scroll view and
manually call touches began with event on
some next responder or some other object.
Now, this is really,
really not supported.
We don't support forwarding
touches manually between
views that are owned by UIKit.
UIKit can no longer reason about
the flow of events once you've
started manually forwarding views,
manually forwarding touches.
It's just, it leads to bad news.
It would actually turn your view,
or your responder chain into
something that looked like this,
where you kind of manually
forwarded it to the OpenGL view.
But because UIKit didn't
know you were doing it,
it would stop there and not get forwarded
on the rest of the chain anyway.
It really isn't what you want.
So, that's not going to work.
We could try one other thing,
which is to put the OpenGL view
inside of that UI scroll view,
because that would fix
the responder chain.
Our OpenGL view would start
getting the events then.
But as we discussed earlier,
we don't want this view configuration
because we want our scroll view to only
be on a small part of that OpenGL view.
So, once again, it seems like we've kind
of gotten to an impasse.
What can we possibly do?
We can't have the OpenGL view
in the scroll view,
and we can't have the scroll
view in the OpenGL view.
Well, this is another place where we
have to stop and think a little
bit differently than we would in
any other non-OpenGL application.
And again,
it goes back to the fact that we
don't actually want UI Scroll View to
do any of the drawing.
All we're trying to do is
get its event tracking,
its deceleration, and its bouncing.
We just want the behaviors that
UI Scroll View is providing.
So really,
we don't even need the scroll view to
be in the view hierarchy visible at all,
because we're not relying
on it drawing anything.
So we could just try and hide it,
or move it off to the side,
or add it as a subview somewhere
where you can't even see it,
and it wouldn't actually
change our visuals at all.
The only problem we'd
have left then is that,
well, obviously it's not going
to get any touches if it's
not visible and on screen.
So we would have to come up with some
way to make sure that it's still got
touches if we were to try and do this.
And it turns out that we
actually can do exactly that.
So let's put a dummy UI view in
its place just to provide the
sizing exactly where we had had
it in the view hierarchy before.
And this dummy view can
just be a plain UI view.
It doesn't have to be a subclass at all.
The most important property
of this view being that it
doesn't implement touches began,
moved, ended, or canceled.
And the reason for that is that
we've now fixed our responder chain.
We've got a child view,
and it will forward events to the
OpenGL view if it doesn't handle them,
which it won't,
because we're not going to have it.
So we've got the responder
chain back in order,
but we still don't have our
UI scroll view receiving any touches.
But we can fix that by taking
advantage of the fact that UI scroll
view does its touch tracking
using UI gesture recognizers.
So UI scroll view has
a number of UI gesture
recognizers attached to itself.
And those gesture recognizers are exposed
through properties on the UI scroll view.
So we can grab them and
move them to another view.
Once we've attached
them to that child view,
they're in the view hierarchy in a place
where we want them to receive touches,
and so they will start receiving touches.
When those gestures recognize,
they'll notify the UI scroll view
that they have been recognized,
and the UI scroll view will begin
scrolling despite the fact that
it's not actually visible on screen.
And really,
this will let us implement exactly
what Eliza was trying to do.
So in order to show how that works,
she's going to come back
up and do one more demo.
Okay,
this is going to be a really easy demo.
We just need to replace our scroll
view with a dummy view and move
the gesture recognizers over.
So the first thing I'm going
to do is move the scroll view
out of the way so that it stops
trying to usurp all my touches.
And I can do that by moving it aside,
by sticking it under everything,
but probably the easiest way
to do that is just to hide it,
because hidden views don't get hit test.
So I'm going to go ahead and hide it.
And now I'm going to add a dummy view.
I'm going to make the frame of the
dummy view be the same scrollable frame,
because that's where we want to be
able to detect our panning gesture.
I'm going to add the gesture
recognizers from the scroll view.
So here I'm accessing the scroll
view's pan gesture recognizer property.
I'm just taking that gesture recognizer
and I'm moving it over to the dummy view.
I only care about the pan gesture
recognizer in this case because I'm
not trying to allow zooming on my view.
And then finally I'm going
to add this dummy view as a
subview of my OpenGL view.
And that's pretty much it.
So that ought to solve our problem.
So here we are scrolling.
So I can still scroll, first of all,
which is pretty cool because
the scroll view is actually
not even receiving touches now.
And then I can actually now
tap these views and it works.
So this actually does solve the problem.
Now, it solves it in an odd way, right?
We have this view here that's
kind of performing this
weird function and it's --
It's a little roundabout.
So I want to just mention that
under some configurations,
you wouldn't actually have to do this.
So as it happens,
my cube view is detecting
touches using touches began,
moved, ended, and canceled,
which makes it vulnerable to
this responder chain problem.
So we wanted to show this because we
think that people who already have
existing OpenGL apps and have already
got their touch handling written might
want to be able to adopt this method.
But if you were writing an app from
scratch and you decided to use gesture
recognizers for your touch handling,
then you wouldn't face the problem that
I faced at the end of the last demo
because gesture recognizers don't depend
on the responder chain to recognize.
So had I been detecting taps
using a UITap gesture recognizer,
we wouldn't have even had this
problem in the first place.
So keep that in mind if you're
adopting this technique from scratch.
In the case where you're using tap
gesture recognizers to do touch handling,
then you could just leave
the scroll view there,
not hide it, not have a dummy view,
and everything.
All right, so turning it back over to
Josh for one more topic.
All right.
Thanks, Eliza.
So the last thing we want to
talk about-- just kidding.
I don't know why they put
that button on there-- is
[Transcript missing]
So let's add this.
So in this case, let me switch back to
the application running.
We don't have any cars,
because I couldn't possibly
draw one in OpenGL.
But let's make it so that every
time that you scroll this,
you end up perfectly centered with
three cubes in the middle of the screen,
so that this configuration
isn't a possible resting
point for the scroll view,
just to demonstrate the concept.
So in order to do that,
we're going to add a new method
that this cube view implements.
I'm calling it Scroll Offset
for Proposed Offset.
So what the cube view is going to do is
go look at the offset that was proposed,
figure out what's the nearest
one that would get three cubes
perfectly centered on the screen,
and return that.
So let's go ahead and implement that.
So switching to my implementation,
I'm going to add it here
under my scrollable content.
So in this Scroll Offset
for Proposed Offset method,
the first thing that I'm going to do
is calculate how much have we overshot.
So basically,
you imagine that here's where you'd be if
the three cubes were perfectly centered.
But in fact, the user has dragged the
scroll view over to there.
So we want to calculate how much
did we overshoot the perfect offset.
And I'm doing that by taking,
I'm modding the actual offset.
So I'm going to take the offset X by the
width of one of my little cubes to see
how far into a little cube did we get.
So now that I've
calculated that overshoot,
I'm going to see, well,
did we overshoot by less than half
or more than half of a little cube?
Because if it's less than half,
we want to round down,
and if it's more than half,
we're going to want to round up.
So if the overshoot is less than
half of a little cube width,
then we will make our offset X,
we'll subtract the
overshoot from the offset.
If it was more than half
of a little cube width,
then we'll add on the rest
of that little cube width.
So that's the little cube
width minus the overshoot.
And then we're just going to return
the new offset that we calculated.
All right, so let's call that from
our view controller.
Once again,
we're going to add a final view
controller delegate method,
the one that Josh just mentioned.
Let me give us more room.
So in this scroll view will
end dragging with velocity
target content offset method,
we're going to add a new offset.
So we're going to take the target content
offset here that you can see at the end,
and we're going to pass that to our
cube view as the proposed offset.
So we're going to say the new target
content offset that we're going to return
via this in-out parameter is the result
of passing the one we were given to this
scroll offset for proposed offset method.
And that's pretty much it.
So if I run this now,
you can see that when I scroll,
it sort of decelerates slowly
to the exact right point.
If I even were to drag a little way
into a cube and let go with no momentum,
it would still come back to the
page boundary that we wanted.
So that's a pretty useful
method that I think is cool
that got added back in iOS 5.
So that's pretty much it for my demos,
and I'm going to turn it back
over to Josh to finish up.
All right, well, thanks again for coming.
If you have any more questions about
any of the content on the session here,
Jake Behrens is the
UI Frameworks evangelist.
If you want any more
documentation about Scroll View,
of course, that's the Scroll View link
at developer.apple.com and
obviously the dev forums.
There's a couple of related
sessions later still this week.
The Introducing Collection Views session.
If you haven't seen the new
collection views introduced in iOS 6,
this stuff is pretty cool.
And you can learn all
about it in the repeat.
Thursday at 9:00 AM.
And then Building Advanced Gesture
Recognizers is also tomorrow,
Thursday at 11:30 AM,
where we'll talk more about
awesome things you can do
with gesture recognizers,
if you haven't seen a lot about that yet.
There's also a
Scroll View Lab tomorrow morning,
first thing in the morning, 9:00 AM.
So if you have more
Scroll View questions,
come see us there.
Thanks for coming.